Q. List all the blocks/data-structures on the ext2 partition (e.g. superblock, group descriptor, block bitmap, directory data block, etc) with block size 4KB, that MAY be updated (means changed) when a file of size 8 KB is created.
A. superblock, block group descriptor fot that block group, block and inode bitmaps, 


Q. List any 3 problems of each of the block allocation schemes (continous, linked, indexed)
A. Continuous: external fragmentation 
   Linked: multiple disk seek and I/O cycles needed 
   Indexed: index blocks can be cached, but data blocks throughout the memory Size limit for file



Q. What is a device driver? Write some 7-8 points that correctly describe need, use, placement, particularities of device drivers.
A. Device driver is code interacting with the device controller
   

What is a zombie process? How is it different from an orphan process?
->
Zombie: child has finished its execution but the parent hasn't called wait() on it
Orphan: running child process whose parent has completed its execution 




Which state changes are possible for a process, which changes are not possible?
->
Not possible: 
1 new to any state other than ready
2 ready to waiting or new
3 running to new
4 waiting to running or terminated 
Possible:
Rest all



What is mkfs? what does it do? what are different options to mkfs and what do they mean?



What is the purpose of the PCB? which are the necessary fields in the PCB?



Write a C program that uses globals, local variables, static local variables, static global variables, and malloced memory. Compile it. Dump the object code file using objdump -S. Can you see in the output, the separation into stack, heap, text, etc?
->
Yes



Which parts of a C program ((typedef, #define, #include, functions, local vars, statics, globals, #ifdef, ... ) etc occupy RAM when it's a process, and where (code, data, stack, ..)?



Describe the role of CPU (MMU), kernel, compiler in the overall task of "memory management" for a process/program.
->
Notes 




What is the difference between a named pipe and un-named pipe?
->
Named pipes can be created using mkfifo




Describe the steps involved in resolving the path name /a/b/c on an ext2 filesystem.
->
Asg 2




Suppose there is an ext2 partition with block size of 2KB. what is the maximum possible size of a file in kilobytes?




Write a program that implements a pipe between two processes only (this is Shell assignment-2, first small part).
->
Done




What are privilegd instructions? Why are they required? What is their relationship to 2 modes of CPU execution?



Explain what happens in pre-processing, compilation and linking and loading.
->
Notes



Why is the kernel called an event-drive program?



What are the limitations of segmentation memory management scheme?



How is the problem of external fragmentation solved?
->
Compaction



Does paging suffer from fragmentation of any kind?



in this program: int main() { int a[16], i; for(i = 0; ; i++) printf("%d\n", a[i]); } why does the program not segfault at a[16] or some more values?

What is segmentation fault? why is it caused? who detects it and when? how is the process killed after segmentation fault?
->
Caused by illegal memory access 
Mmu detects it's 




What is the meaning of "core dumped"?



What is voluntary context switch and non-voluntary context switch on Linux? Name 2 processes which have lot of non-voluntary context switches compared to voluntary.





